Create Contribute Review Page (#132)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/contribute/review.md

---
layout: guide
title: Review
description: Contribute to the guide by reviewing a proposed change
nav_order: 2
parent: Contribute to guide

> permalink: /guide/contribute/review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: /guide/contribute/review/
```

> image: /assets/images/guide/contribute/contribute-review-preview.jpg

Reviewer: Image does not exist.

Author: Correct, I've done that on purpose, Jose told me he'll work on those and I'll add them as soon as they're ready.

---

# Reviewing a proposed change

> Peer-review is a foundation of an open-source project. The review process happens in the open, and anyone can preview and assess a proposed change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer-review is fundamental for open-source projects. The review process happens in the open, and anyone can preview and assess proposed changes.
```

> Reviewing is a great entry point for new contributors. By inspecting others' work, you can get a better insight into the project, familiarize yourself with our processes or learn about Bitcoin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reviewing is a great entry point for new contributors. By inspecting others' work, you can get a better insight into the project, familiarize yourself with our processes and learn about Bitcoin.
```

{% include youtube.html id="OXPReIz9HMs" %}

## Prerequisites

The review process requires only a GitHub account and no additional software. It's good practice to read our guidelines that will help you better evaluate proposed changes.

1. Create a [GitHub account](https://github.com/)

> 2. Read the [content guidelines](content-guidelines.md)

Reviewer: 3 links to markdown files. Should be replaced with links to pages.

Author: What's the difference?

3. Read the [illustration guidelines](illustration-guidelines.md)
4. Read the [formatting guidelines](formatting.md)

### Identifying what to review

A change is proposed in a form of a pull request[^1]. To preview a list of all proposals visit this [link](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pulls) or go to Bitcoin Design Guide [repository](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/) and click on the `Pull requests` tab.

> Pull requests marked as **WIP (Work in progress)** usually require structural feedback and do not need a thorough evaluation. If the WIP pull request description doesn't specify the required feedback type, feel free to ask the author by leaving a comment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull requests with the `Draft` status, or marked as **WIP (Work in progress)**, usually require structural feedback and do not need a thorough evaluation yet. If the WIP pull request description doesn't specify the required feedback type, feel free to ask the author by leaving a comment.
```

### Reviewing pull requests

From the list of pull requests select the one you want to review. Read the description of a pull request, and if it references an issue, check the issue to get the context. To begin the review process click on the `Files Changed` tab.

> The tab is split into two sections. The section on the left represents the current code/content. The section on the right represents the proposed changes.

Reviewer: It's a single column for me. I believe this is a setting you can toggle whether you want one or two columns.

Author: @GBKS are you sure you haven't switched to a single one? I believe two column view is default?

Author: f3e979fd39c006ea4d51badb74f0b0218db189dd

To begin reviewing, browse through the changed files from top to bottom. When you identify something that requires a comment or suggestion, click on the `+` icon in front of the line you want to comment on, and toggle the comment window and leave your comment.

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-comment.gif"

Reviewer: This image is 3.7MB. I was able to get it to 2MB via [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com). Reducing size to 800px width would also help. Let me know if you want me to do that.

Author: @GBKS I am unsure how to resize the gif, if you already have a way to reduce it would be helpful, thanks :wink:

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-comment.gif"
   mobile = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-comment.gif"
   mobileRetina = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-comment.gif"
   alt-text = "pull-request-comment"
   width = 1438
   height = 709
%}

> If you have a concrete `suggestion` for a change, you can make a suggestion. To make a suggestion click on the suggestion icon, or use `Ctrl+G` or `cmd+G`. If your direct suggestion is accepted, it will count as a commit and you will be credited as a co-author of the commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a concrete `suggestion` for a change, you can make a suggestion. To do so, click the suggestion icon, or use `Ctrl+G` or `cmd+G`. If your direct suggestion is accepted, it will count as a commit and you will be credited as a co-author of the commit.
```

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-suggest.gif"
   retina ="/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-suggest.gif"
   mobile ="/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-suggest.gif"
   mobileRetina ="/assets/images/guide/contribute/review/review-pull-request-suggest.gif"
   alt-text = "pull-request-comment"
   width = 1438
   height = 709
%}

When you're done with leaving individual feedback, you can submit it. Click on the `Leave a review` button in the upper right corner. There are three types of feedback you can leave:

- **Comment** - general feedback without explicit approval.
- **Approve changes** - feedback approving the proposed changes.
- **Request changes** - feedback explicitly suggesting changes.

#### Best practices when reviewing pull requests

**Do**

- Leave a suggestion instead of general feedback whenever possible, especially for typo and grammar-related feedback

> - Be humble and humble when reviewing

Reviewer: `humble and humble`?

Author: Double humbleness! Any other more appropriate word, or should I just say be humble when reviewing?

Reviewer: How about `humble and constructive`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be humble and constructive when reviewing
```
